The next thing we're gonna do with
our chat project is rename all
of the JavaScript files
to TypeScript files.
A couple type errors are gonna pop up,
this is sort of the next wave
of things we need to fix.
We'll address those, we'll make a commit,
and then we'll move on.
So I'm gonna close all my tabs here.
The reason being,
the JS files are going to disappear.
When you have tabs open with JS files and
you rename them with script
like we're gonna run,
it's easy to accidentally hit Save, and
then you've sort of got the JavaScript and
TypeScript, it's not great.
So rather than ask you how
to do the renaming by hand,
you can just run node
scripts/rename-to-ts.mjs, and Enter.
Cool, this has renamed everything.
Well, a lot of things.
Actually, it hasn't even picked
up on all the changes yet.
No, it has, good.
I missed the little r here for,
[LAUGH] renamed.
So we've got everything
in our data folder,
we've got all of our React components,
they're TSX files now.
Here's our utils folder,
which is sort of low level utilities.
Look, even our tests have been renamed,
as well as the snapshots.
And here's some more tests here.
So I wanna make a Git commit right now.
And the reason is, if we were to go and
start changing these files,
there's a point where Git starts to
think that this is like the removal of
the old file and
an addition of a totally new TS file.
And I think there's value in
preserving Git history so
that you can track history all the way
back to when it was written in JavaScript.
This is another big important thing for
large-scale projects, right?
You don't wanna make this change,
and then bugs start popping up.
And maybe you wanna run like Git bisect to
try to track when the bug was introduced,
but your Git history
is sort of disjointed,
it's worth it to preserve history.
Cool, and see all these nice
little rename things here?
That's what you want.
We're gonna make a commit,
and now we can do changes.
But now, forever, Git will understand
that this was a shift over.
There's one more change
that we need to make,
we could have made it
before we made the commit.
And that's that we have to
change the entry point.
In the case of Parcel that I'm
using here to build this project,
index.html is my entry point.
And this is what we're gonna
need to change right here.
That's a JS file.
There's a TS file.
And this should work.
I have it a little different in the course
notes where I have type=text/javascript,
but this should be fine,
just to leave it like this.
And now that we've made that change,
just for fun,
I'm gonna amend it to my previous commit.
Cuz it kinda belongs there.
Part of the JS to TS rename.
Let's run yarn type check and yarn test.
Type check and test.
It's gonna run our Jesttests that are in
this repo for us, they were already there.
Okay, we got a couple
of things popping up.
So let's investigate these one by one.
And again, I'm scanning through here and
I wanna find the lowest level pieces
of code that I can start with first.
I see a couple of things in the utils
folder and the data folder.
In this project specifically,
you all would know best in your respective
projects, but we all have a sense for
what are like the low level, format
a date into a string kind of functions.
And then React components are sort of
higher level where they're grabbing node
modules, they're grabbing those
date formatting things, and
they're putting them all together.
So, let's start here.
So we have one error here,
const d=new Deferred().
Says it expected 1 argument but got 0.
And it looks like we've had
a constructor argument here for
deferred that we haven't provided.
So let's take a look at deferred.
Well, it turns out we're not
even using this description,
we're not using it anywhere.
But I'm gonna follow the practice
that I would advise you all follow,
which is it's tempting to remove this, but
we're trying to perturb this
project as little as possible.
And so what we can do here is just say,
let's make it optional,
even though it's unused.
Let's pretend it might not be,
but let's make it optional.
We're really trying to avoid changing
the resultant code that spits out,
the JavaScript code that
comes out of this process.
Anytime you do that,
you run the risk of introducing a bug.
And it's not that we shouldn't fix this,
but
it should be fixed separately
from this conversion step.
Something like that.
Now, you may notice, let's see,
look at that, see description: any.
What we're seeing here is that, since
we've converted this to TypeScript now,
this type information
from JSDoc is ignored.
And it may seem like it would be useful
to, like still pay attention to it here,
but imagine a world where we
have something like this.
How do we reconcile that like,
which type information should
TypeScript pay attention to?
Sometimes the docs are built
based on this, right?
So really, it's just saying, look, you
can define types right in the code now,
that's where you should be doing it.
So you'll see a couple occurrences
here where we're gonna
have to just bring this into our code.
And by the way, this type checked as
a JavaScript file before because this was
optional with the square brackets here.
It just failed to type check once we said
it's a mandatory argument you got to
provide.
Does everyone understand why?
Do you understand the difference between
it being this, and it being optional?
We could have done this.
We're just obligated to
explicitly provide something.
Undefined could be something we provide,
right?
But I don't wanna change that
invocation of deferred either,
I want this to become a string,
an optional string.
And we can get rid of this
just to avoid confusion.
Wow, my hotkey.
I'm putting my fingers
all over the place here.
Okay, sorry, we'll keep the word
description here, that's better.
Okay, this file looks good now,
let's look at our api.ts, that looks good.
I don't see any red errors
on the header here.
Let's look at error.ts, seems good.
Networking, seems good.
All right, let's run our type check
again just to see how we're doing.
Okay, so we're good on the utils folder,
now, let's look at data.
So here, what's this happening here?
API call, an argument for
init was not provided.
Hey, it's another thing that TypeScript
no longer understands is optional,
that's my bet.
Let's go and look.
Let's click into API call.
Sure enough, this has square brackets.
So I'm just gonna bring this type
in to the code, kinda like that.
And then the string, put it for path.
Let's see,
I'm gonna type check one more time.
If we get lucky,
we might fix a lot of things.
Three errors in two files.
Okay, again, starting with the principle
of lower level file first,
let's look at channel.
All right, loading.
It is the same error we were seeing
before, we solved it with JSDoc,
JSDoc types are ignored now.
We're just gonna have to bring
this into TypeScript world.
Something like that.
Get rid of the comment,
run it one more time.
There are my tests running.
The fact that I'm seeing my test run means
that the type checking passed, right,
cuz that's this is the command.
Yarn type check has to pass for
the test to run.
And they ran, and of course,
there is a test for deferred, right?
So here you can see we've got
a version that passes a string.
There's probably one,
it always passed a string in.
And so it seems like our tests
really wanted to pass this string.
We didn't have to touch our tests.
As far as we can tell,
most of what we did was bring
JSDoc types into TypeScript code.
One of the things we lost as we started to
ignore JSDoc is optionality of properties.
And so, I would say this was a nice
disciplined conversion step where
we didn't, it's very low risk that we
perturbed code more than we should have.
This is where I would make a Git commit.
We've completed step two.
We've renamed our files to TS and
made the necessary adjustments.